Universal Binary Games

    Unity 1.2.2 produces games that work on Apple's sweet new Intel Macs (as well as Apple's sweet old PowerPC macs.)

    This goes for all deployment targets: standalone, the Unity Web Plugin, and Dashboard Widgets.

Great Windows Support

    Games delivered to the Windows platform now perform better, support hardware better, and offer a screen-resolution interface which is as good as that on the Mac. The built game looks really clean on Windows too: just one executable and one data-folder.

    Harmony between the spheres.

    (Screenshots from Phoenix Final, a game in development by Neil Carter.)

New Features

    Added screen-selector on Windows.
    
    Windows Standalone players now only contain an executable and a Data folder. DLLs have been moved into the Data folder.
    
    Added improved resolution handling on Windows.
    
    Improved joystick support on Windows.
    
    Performance improvements across the board.
    
    Screen.SetResolution can now set the refreshRate.

Bugfixes

    OnCollisionEnter contact normals now always face outwards of the surface hit. In some rare cases they used to be the opposite direction

    Fixed Skybox handling.

    Fixed flare rendering for directional lights when the camera has a faraway near-plan.

    Fixed a problem where Euler-angle rotation values entered in the inspector were garbled.

    Fixed bug in Selection.GetFiltered handling when requesting all selected game objects.

    Fixed a problem when stripping debug symbols of the standalone player, if the user didn't have the Apple Developer Tools installed. This is no longer necessary!

    Fixed crashbug related to rendering selection wireframe and wireframe getting out of sync.

    Fixed a JavaScript error when comparing dynamically typed objects against null.

    Fixed rare crashbug when multiple character controllers collided.

    Fixed rare null-reference exception when using coroutines in C#.

    Fixed a rare render texture crashbug on ATI 8500 / 9000 / 9200 graphics cards.

    Fixed rare crashbug when collapsing placement foldout in the material inspector.

    Fixed rare Windows crashbug related to lighting.

    Fixed spurious MeshRenderer "missing vertex colors" error.
