Major Features

    With version 1.0.1 web players and dashboard widgets can be publicly distributed.
    The web player is now fully sand boxed. This means some functionality is disabled when running in the web player. For example you cannot create or destroy files on the users machine when running in a web player. We also added a web player download page for end users (www.otee.dk/getunityplayer.html) The sample html page shows how to link to this website in case the user doesn't have the plug-in installed. Dashboard widgets automatically install the web plug-in.
    
    Added nine HOWTO documents
    
    Greatly simplified Transform script interface
    
    Added alpha mapped shader family (Diffuse, Bumped, Glossy, BumpSpec & VertexLit variants)
    
    Warnings and errors are now colored and have an icon in the console. The status view now bounces like the dock to make it more visible when an error occurs
    
    Finder-like renaming, ESC to cancel an edit in Hierarchy

Project & Inspectors

    Animation clips can now be renamed by adding an @ in the file name. eg. monster@run.fbx will have all animations named run
    
    The screen can now be used as a render texture
    
    Web player can now enter full screen mode using the context menu
    
    Converted more sample code to java script
    
    You can now create networked games using System.Net.Sockets API. This is a low level networking API. We will add higher level API's later on
    
Bug fixes

    Fixed a bug where an external text editor would open a script two times
    
    Fixed the crash reporting popping up when tabbing in the property editor
    
    Added "Remove Component" to context menu again
    
    Alternate key for input axis now works
    
    Fixed a bug when auto updating the web plug-in
    
    Fixed a crash bug when going into full screen mode with the web player
    
    Using 600k less memory for deployed web players
    
    Optimized installation to take up less space
    
    Improved collider documentation
    
    Made graphics script interface have a better match with what you see in the inspector
    
    Added particle animation/render script interface
    
    Lens flares now track the light enabled state correctly
    
    Lens flares work with directional lights
    
    Lens flare scripting interface maps 1:1 to the inspector
    
    Component names look better
    
    Inspector now immediately starts editing when clicking on a property
    
    Added Audio Source & Lens Flare gizmos so you can select them from the scene view
    
    A default material is now always assigned to the mesh renderer when importing a mesh from 3DS, FBX or Maya
    
    Components can now be removed from scripts by calling Destroy() on the component you want to destroy. Eg. Destroy(light)
    
    Fixed a bug where Input.inputString did not work in the player
    
    The title bar now shows the project you are working in
    
    The color well is now always opened when clicking on the color in the inspector
    
    Skinned characters now handle the case when scale is applied to the skinned mesh correctly
    
    Record animation now doesn't ask if it should break prefab connection if it doesn't have to
    
    Javascripts can now use yield; instead of yield 0;
    
    Javascripts can now use the post increment operator eg. i++
    
    Javascripts can now use the post increment operator eg. i++
    
    Javascripts can now create new classes inside the script
    
Crash bugs

    Fixed a crashbug when importing FBX meshes, instead we are printing a warning that triangulation failed and skip importing uv's or vertex colors. Working mesh triangulation will be fixed in the next release
    
    Fixed a crashbug when dereferencing a null pointer from the scripting language
    
    Fixed a crashbug when playing sounds on non-stereo surround sound systems
    
    Fixed a crashbug when importing audio files
    
    Fixed a crashbug when using Add All key frames in the time line
    
    Fixed a crashbug when ragdolled characters are added to a prefabs
    
    Fixed a crashbug when in a Javascript yield 0; transform.position.x += 1; was used
    
Known issues

    On Geforce 5200 mobile graphics cards text sometimes disappears. This will be fixed with the next release

    Triangulation of meshes sometimes fails. We give a warning in the console when it happens. A workaround is to manually triangulate your meshes in your 3D program. This will be fixed with the next release

    Dashboard widgets don't get focus back correctly when looking at the back side of the widget and then going back again
