Unity 5.6.0b3
Released: December 23, 2016

5.6.0b3 Release Notes (Delta since b2)
System Requirement Changes

    Android minimum version supported updated to 4.1 (JellyBean).

Known Issues

    2D: 2D sprite cannot be dragged to the scene view if project is created in 3D. (863887)
    Animation: Problems with Animator in 5.6.0b3 after upgrading project from 5.5.0p3 (864062)
    Animation: [Animation window] Playback head is not moved when key is selected (864048)
    Asset Pipeline: Referencing UnityEditor.iOS.Extensions.Xcode throws exception after reimporting assets. (778581)
    Editor: Handles in the scene view are incorrectly offset by 2 points (856685)
    GI: Compositing process gets stuck while building lighting (863964)
    iOS: Rendering orientation is incorrect if orientation is overridden in Start() in your project’s first scene.
    Particles: Crash when a particle system is sub-emitter of more than one other particle system. (857065)
    Particles: Particle system glitch with some mesh types. (863967)
    Scripting: API Updater Internal error "Recursion detected while updating scripts (assembly index: 4)" is thrown when updating scripts. Note that this occurs when importing some 5.4 projects directly into 5.6 beta. One workaround is to do an intermediate import/save into 5.5. (863941)
    Scripting: API Updater start is delayed when a project is imported from Asset Store and user is forced to update APIs manually. (863995)
    VR: [Daydream] Deadlock issue when quitting an app, where the app may still execute for up to 3s after it goes away. (861469)
    VR: [Daydream] iOS is not supported with the current native integration but will be available in an upcoming beta release.
    VR: [Daydream] There is a memory leak when you exit and re-enter VR mode. This leak is on the native Google VR code and Google is actively working on fixing this. (859281)
    VR: [Daydream] There is a tiling bug in the Pixel Snapdragon GPU driver that appears when post-processing effects are used. Unlike 5.4, 5.6 currently runs post processing image effects all the time, so the tiling issue will be more noticeable. This will be fixed in a future driver update that Google will ship as an OTA update for affected devices.
    VR: [Daydream] There is no native controller integration yet. For controller use please use the Unity SDK provided by Google.
    VR: [Daydream] You may notice that your Daydream VR display may be dimmer than other VR devices. This is by design as a means of prolonging battery life while in VR.

Features

    2D: SpriteRenderer: added support for 9-slice Sprite rendering.
    IL2CPP: Added support for Windows Runtime when targeting Windows Store and Xbox One players with .NET 4.6 API Compatibility Level (Check manual at Scripting -> Scripting Tools -> IL2CPP -> Windows Runtime for more information).
    VR: Initial Vulkan support for OpenVR.

Changes

    Android: Minimum supported Android API incremented from 9 (gingerbread) to 16 (jellybean).
    Shaders: Removed glstate_matrix_mvp, glstate_matrix_modelview0, glstate_matrix_transpose_modelview0 and glstate_matrix_invtrans_modelview0:
        Warning messages are printed on detection of uses of UNITY_MATRIX_MVP and UNITY_MATRIX_MV.
        In order to use these matrices, use UNITY_MATRIX_MVP and friends instead (as you should be doing already).
        But note! - for better performance, always prefer UnityObjectToClipPos and UnityObjectToViewPos if you are transforming vertices into clip space and view space respectively.
        Since now we have unified the transforming path, #pragma force_concat_matrices is obsolete.
        Our tests show an improvement in CPU performance and a degradation in GPU performance. The difference, however, is only noticeable when vertex load is very high.

Improvements

    Android: Moved Android splash image to a Java implementation so that it is displayed quicker during engine loading.
    Graphics: Frame Debugger improvements:
        Ctrl+Click on texture properties pops up a larger preview, just like the Standard shader UI does. This is also useful for viewing cubemap textures.
        ComputeShader dispatches now shows the compute shader, kernel and dispatch size used.
        The Shader properties tab is now the default one (instead of mesh preview).
        The Shader properties view now shows the ComputeBuffer properties that are used.

API Changes

    GI: Exposed baked ambient occlusion (ao), indirectAO and directAO to scripting API.
    Graphics: Added integer (Shader.PropertyToID) overloads to Material.SetTextureScale & SetTextureOffset. (766076)

Fixes

    Animation: Fixed bug in the ModelImporter animationclip automatic naming. (768723)
    Editor: Fixed issue where it was not possible to check out only the asset file in Inspector if the meta file was already checked out (and vice-versa). (717021)
    GI: Fix to ensure that scenes are ordered correctly, to patch in their lightmaps into the common LightmapSettings. (812486)
    Graphics: Frame Debugger: shader property values originating from MaterialPropertyBlocks are now displayed properly.
    Graphics: Frame Debugger: temporary render textures are now kept alive longer while frame debugger is active, for less confusing shader property display.
    Kernel: Json serialisation now supports correct parsing of NaN and +/-Inf. (829753)
